docs/agent/tools.mdx, before:

---
title: "Tools"
description: "The four LangChain tools available to the Nephila agent"
---

## Overview

The agent has access to four tools, each backed by a specific data source. Tools are defined in `agent/tools/` and bound to the LLM via `llm.bind_tools(TOOLS)`.

## Tool Reference

| Tool | File | Data source | Description |
|------|------|-------------|-------------|
| `search_drug` | `tool_search_drug.py` | ChromaDB `idx_bdpm_medicament_v1` | Semantic search over BDPM drug specialties |
| `find_generics` | `tool_find_generics.py` | Silver `silver_bdpm__generique` | Find generic equivalents by CIS code |
| `check_interactions` | `tool_check_interactions.py` | ChromaDB `idx_ansm_interaction_v1` | ANSM drug interaction lookup |
| `get_rcp` | `tool_get_rcp.py` | Silver `silver_bdpm__info_importante` | Retrieve the official RCP link for a specialty |

## `search_drug`

Performs a **semantic vector search** against the BDPM drug index in ChromaDB.

- Input: free-text query (drug name, INN, brand name)
- Output: list of matching specialties with CIS code, denomination, form, marketing status
- Index: `idx_bdpm_medicament_v1` — embeddings of denomination + composition

```python
# Example invocation by the LLM
search_drug("paracétamol comprimé 1g")
# → [{"cis": "60013674", "denomination": "DOLIPRANE 1000 mg", ...}]
```

## `find_generics`

SQL lookup against the Silver `silver_bdpm__generique` table.

- Input: CIS code of the originator specialty
- Output: list of generics in the same group (CIS, denomination, type)
- Source: `silver_bdpm__generique` joined with `silver_bdpm__medicament`

## `check_interactions`

Semantic search against the ANSM interaction index in ChromaDB.

- Input: substance name or pair of substances
- Output: list of interactions with constraint level and risk description
- Index: `idx_ansm_interaction_v1` — embeddings formatted as `[LEVEL] SubstanceA + SubstanceB: risk`
- Result format: `[Contre-indication] SUBSTANCE_A + SUBSTANCE_B: risk detail`

<Warning>
This tool **must** be called before any drug recommendation. The guardrail node enforces this by checking `interactions_checked` in the agent state.
</Warning>

## `get_rcp`

SQL lookup against `silver_bdpm__info_importante` for the official RCP link.

- Input: CIS code
- Output: URL of the official Résumé des Caractéristiques du Produit (RCP)
- Source: `silver_bdpm__info_importante.texte_info_importante`

The RCP must be cited in every final response — this is a non-negotiable guardrail rule.

## Tool call flow

```
User: "Interactions entre warfarine et paracétamol ?"

agent → search_drug("warfarine")        → cis: 60013674
agent → search_drug("paracétamol")      → cis: 60013674
agent → check_interactions("warfarine + paracétamol")
        → [Précaution d'emploi] WARFARINE + PARACETAMOL: risque d'augmentation des INR
agent → get_rcp("60013674")             → https://...
agent → guardrail (interactions_checked=True)
agent → response (source_cis="60013674")
```

Commit message:

docs(agent): update check_interactions with dual SQL+vector strategy
Reflects af5f625 — ANSM class name resolution, SQL ILIKE primary search,
ChromaDB vector fallback, and deduplication.

Co-Authored-By: spidecode-bot <263227865+spicode-bot@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/agent/tools.mdx, after:

---
title: "Tools"
description: "The four LangChain tools available to the Nephila agent"
---

## Overview

The agent has access to four tools, each backed by a specific data source. Tools are defined in `agent/tools/` and bound to the LLM via `llm.bind_tools(TOOLS)`.

## Tool Reference

| Tool | File | Data source | Description |
|------|------|-------------|-------------|
| `search_drug` | `tool_search_drug.py` | ChromaDB `idx_bdpm_medicament_v1` | Semantic search over BDPM drug specialties |
| `find_generics` | `tool_find_generics.py` | Silver `silver_bdpm__generique` | Find generic equivalents by CIS code |
| `check_interactions` | `tool_check_interactions.py` | ChromaDB `idx_ansm_interaction_v1` | ANSM drug interaction lookup |
| `get_rcp` | `tool_get_rcp.py` | Silver `silver_bdpm__info_importante` | Retrieve the official RCP link for a specialty |

## `search_drug`

Performs a **semantic vector search** against the BDPM drug index in ChromaDB.

- Input: free-text query (drug name, INN, brand name)
- Output: list of matching specialties with CIS code, denomination, form, marketing status
- Index: `idx_bdpm_medicament_v1` — embeddings of denomination + composition

```python
# Example invocation by the LLM
search_drug("paracétamol comprimé 1g")
# → [{"cis": "60013674", "denomination": "DOLIPRANE 1000 mg", ...}]
```

## `find_generics`

SQL lookup against the Silver `silver_bdpm__generique` table.

- Input: CIS code of the originator specialty
- Output: list of generics in the same group (CIS, denomination, type)
- Source: `silver_bdpm__generique` joined with `silver_bdpm__medicament`

## `check_interactions`

Dual-strategy lookup against the ANSM interaction data.

- Input: **ANSM pharmacological class name** (preferred) or individual substance name as fallback
- Output: list of interactions with constraint level and risk description
- Result format: `[Contre-indication] SUBSTANCE_A + SUBSTANCE_B: risk detail`

**Strategy 1 — SQL ILIKE (primary)**: exact/partial match against `silver.silver_ansm__interaction`, sorted by constraint level severity. Returns up to 20 results.

**Strategy 2 — ChromaDB vector search (fallback)**: semantic search against `idx_ansm_interaction_v1` for class names the LLM could not resolve. Results are deduplicated across both strategies.

<Note>
The ANSM Thésaurus indexes interactions by **drug class names**, not individual substance names. The LLM must resolve substance → class before calling this tool.

| Substance | ANSM class to use |
|-----------|------------------|
| warfarine, acenocoumarol, fluindione | `ANTIVITAMINES K` |
| aspirine (antiagrégant) | `ANTIAGREGANTS PLAQUETTAIRES` |
| ciprofloxacine, lévofloxacine | `FLUOROQUINOLONES` |
| MAOIs | `INHIBITEURS DE LA MAO` |
| SSRIs | `INHIBITEURS DE RECAPTURE DE LA SEROTONINE` |
| statines | `STATINES` |
</Note>

<Warning>
This tool **must** be called before any drug recommendation. The guardrail node enforces this by checking `interactions_checked` in the agent state.
</Warning>

## `get_rcp`

SQL lookup against `silver_bdpm__info_importante` for the official RCP link.

- Input: CIS code
- Output: URL of the official Résumé des Caractéristiques du Produit (RCP)
- Source: `silver_bdpm__info_importante.texte_info_importante`

The RCP must be cited in every final response — this is a non-negotiable guardrail rule.

## Tool call flow

```
User: "Interactions entre warfarine et paracétamol ?"

agent → search_drug("warfarine")        → cis: 60013674
agent → search_drug("paracétamol")      → cis: 60013674
agent → check_interactions("warfarine + paracétamol")
        → [Précaution d'emploi] WARFARINE + PARACETAMOL: risque d'augmentation des INR
agent → get_rcp("60013674")             → https://...
agent → guardrail (interactions_checked=True)
agent → response (source_cis="60013674")
```
